samples: radio_test: adding new sample (#1700)
NordicPlayground/fw-nrfconnect-nrf: samples/peripheral/radio_test/README.rst

.. _radio_test:

Radio Test
##########

The Radio Test sample demonstrates how to configure the radio as the constant RX or TX carrier, the modulated TX carrier, or the RX or TX sweep.

Overview
********

The tests are controlled with Command Line Interface (CLI) by the serial port.
At any time during the tests, you can set the radio parameters output power, bit rate, and channel.
You can also set the time on each channel in the sweep mode, in steps of 1 millisecond to 99 milliseconds, every 1 millisecond.
The application also allows you to send a data pattern to another board.

The application starts with enabling the high frequency crystal oscillator and configuring CLI.
Calling a console command causes the appropriate action.

.. note::
  For the IEEE 802.15.4 mode, the start channel and the end channel must be within the channel range of 11 to 26.

Requirements
************

* One of the following development boards:

  * |nRF5340DK|

>     * Network Core

Reviewer: For dual core chips, it would be useful if samples documented what should be loaded on each core for the sample to work correctly.

Reviewer 2: Yes, we are working on adding this piece to the doc.

Reviewer 3: Also this will be probably mentioned in the nRF53 User Guide, which needs an update, see NCSDK-4204

.. _radio_test:

Radio Test
##########

> The Radio Test sample demonstrates how to configure the radio as a constant RX or TX carrier, a modulated TX carrier, or a RX or TX sweep.

Reviewer 4: Why is this called "Radio Test" sample? According to this sentence here, the purpose of the sample is to show how you configure the radio, not to test the radio.
I guess the sample allows to select different radio configuration to test which one is the most suitable? Or is this meant for testing if different configurations work as expected?

Overview
********

> The tests are controlled with Command Line Interface (CLI) through the serial port.

Reviewer 4: What tests? We haven't said anything about tests before. (See comment above)

Can we link to CLI? (Do we have that in NCS?)

At any time during the tests, you can set the radio parameters, such as output power, bit rate, and channel.
You can also set the time on each channel in the sweep mode, in steps of 1 millisecond to 99 milliseconds, every 1 millisecond.
The sample also allows you to send a data pattern to another board.

The sample starts with enabling the high frequency crystal oscillator and configuring CLI.

> Running a console command causes the appropriate action.

Reviewer 4: Can we be a bit more descriptive here?
Something like:
The sample then waits for user input and executes the entered commands (to configure the radio?).
See `User Interface`_ for a list of available commands.

.. note::

>    For the IEEE 802.15.4 mode, the start channel and the end channel must be within the channel range of 11 to 26.

Reviewer 4: Do you configure these with the CLI commands? Or are there configuration options that should be set during compilation?

Requirements
************

* One of the following development boards:

  * |nRF5340DK|

    * Network Core

  * |nRF52840DK|
  * |nRF52DK|

* One of the following testing devices:

  * Spectrum analyzer
  * Another board with the same sample

>   * Another board running RSSI Viewer available in the `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ application

Reviewer 4: The RSSI Viewer is a desktop application, so it cannot be run on a board.
I guess the RSSI Viewer requires some firmware to be installed on a board so you can use the board with the RSSI Viewer?

     - <duty_cycle>
     - Duty cycle in percent (two decimal digits, between 01 and 99).
   * - start_rx
     -
     - Start RX.
   * - start_rx_sweep
     -
     - Start the RX sweep.
   * - start_tx_carrier
     -
     - Start the TX carrier.
   * - start_tx_modulated_carrier
     - <packet_num>
     - Start the modulated TX carrier (continuous TX mode is used if no argument is provided).
   * - start_tx_sweep
     -
     - Start the TX sweep.
   * - time_on_channel
     - <time>
     - Time on each channel (between 1 ms and 99 ms).
   * - toggle_dcdc_state
     - <state>
     - Toggle DC/DC converter state.
   * - transmit_pattern
     - <sub_cmd>
     - Set transmission pattern.

Building and running
********************
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/peripheral/radio_test`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

.. _radio_test_testing:

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your board, test it by performing the following steps:

1. Connect the board to the computer using a USB cable.
   The board is assigned a COM port (Windows) or ttyACM device (Linux), which is visible in the Device Manager.
#. |connect_terminal|

> #. Type any command described in the :ref:`radio_test_ui`.

Reviewer 4: This is not helpful for new users.
We should give a set of clear instructions, and then we can end with something like "you can also enter any command described in ...".
But first we should give the users instructions for 3-5 useful commands:
"Type XXX to configure something and then startXXX to start doing something. Observe that ...
Type YYY ..."

If this gets difficult because we have different methods of checking the result (spectrum analyzer/RSSI Viewer or a second board), we should either have two sets of testing instructions or give a general explanation of the different ways of testing first.

.. _radio_test:

Radio Test
##########

The Radio Test sample demonstrates how to configure the radio in a specific mode and then test its performance.
The sample provides a set of predefined commands that allow you to configure the radio in three modes:

* Constant RX or TX carrier
* Modulated TX carrier
* RX or TX sweep

Overview
********

> The tests are controlled with Command Line Interface (CLI) through the serial port.

Reviewer 4: Is CLI a module in NCS?
If not, isn't what we want to say rather something like:
```suggestion
You can run the tests by connecting to the board through the serial port and sending shell commands.
```

Author: Yes, I am using word CLI to refer to shell subsystem from Zephyr.
I am okay with the change if it sounds better to you.

Reviewer 4: Well, there is no module called CLI in Zephyr, so we should use the term that Zephyr uses (namely shell).

Author: This is aligned now

Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:shell_label` module is used to handle the commands.
At any time during the tests, you can dynamically set the radio parameters, such as output power, bit rate, and channel.
In sweep mode, you can set the time for which the radio scans each channel from 1 millisecond to 99 milliseconds, in steps of 1 millisecond.
The sample also allows you to send a data pattern to another board.

> The sample starts with enabling the high frequency crystal oscillator and configuring CLI.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The sample starts with enabling the high frequency crystal oscillator and configuring the shell.
```

You can then start running commands to set up and control the radio.
See :ref:`radio_test_ui` for a list of available commands.

.. note::
   For the IEEE 802.15.4 mode, the start channel and the end channel must be within the channel range of 11 to 26.
   Use the ``start_channel`` and ``end_channel`` commands to control this setting.

Requirements
************

* One of the following development boards:

  * |nRF5340DK|

>     * Network Core

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    * Network core
```

  * |nRF52840DK|
  * |nRF52DK|

* One of the following testing devices:

  * Another board with the same sample.
    See :ref:`radio_test_testing_board`.
  * Another board connected to a PC with RSSI Viewer application (available in the `nRF Connect for Desktop`_).
    See :ref:`radio_test_testing_rssi`.

.. note::
   The radio test can be also performed using a spectrum analyzer.
   This method of testing is not covered by this documentation.

.. _radio_test_ui:

User interface
**************

> .. list-table:: Main CLI commands (in alphabetical order)

Reviewer 4: Still doubtful about the CLI here ;)

Author: Are you suggesting that I should use Shell instead of CLI? (it's Shell subsystem in Zephyr after all)  Or what do you mean?

Reviewer 4: Yes, "Main shell commands ..." works.

     -
     - Print the received RX payload.
   * - start_channel
     - <channel>
     - Start the channel for the sweep or the channel for the constant carrier.
   * - start_duty_cycle_modulated_tx
     - <duty_cycle>
     - Duty cycle in percent (two decimal digits, between 01 and 99).
   * - start_rx
     -
     - Start RX.
   * - start_rx_sweep
     -
     - Start the RX sweep.
   * - start_tx_carrier
     -
     - Start the TX carrier.
   * - start_tx_modulated_carrier
     - <packet_num>
     - Start the modulated TX carrier (continuous TX mode is used if no argument is provided).
   * - start_tx_sweep
     -
     - Start the TX sweep.
   * - time_on_channel
     - <time>
     - Time on each channel (between 1 ms and 99 ms).
   * - toggle_dcdc_state
     - <state>
     - Toggle DC/DC converter state.
   * - transmit_pattern
     - <sub_cmd>
     - Set transmission pattern.

Building and running
********************
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/peripheral/radio_test`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

.. note::
   On the |nRF5340DKnoref|, the Radio Test sample is a standalone network sample that does not require any counterpart application sample.

>    However, you still need to flash the application core to boot up the network core.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   However, you must still program the application core to boot up the network core.
```
